>> Steve Kinney: What we want to do next
is figure out ways in which to get our
application to not have to go and
find every single request and
response right, because that's,
again, not just tedious.
I do tedious things all the time.
Error-prone, because if I miss one,
it's going to fall back to an any.
Then if I apply this stuff but
I only apply it 80% of the way,
that's better than not, but it's not
giving me that peace of mind and sanity.
So there are some patterns, and again, we
will just and this point, lightly touch on
them, cuz I don't want to get too much
into the weeds of express itself.
But it is more like we will do it,
so then you can apply the pattern.
Cuz none of these frameworks,
none of like,
if you even look at what comes
out of next, or spell kit, or
Hono, or what have you, all right,
they're all roughly the same.
Which is you can use in this case,
in the case of Express,
you can use middleware as well
to add some of that type safety.
And effectively reusable middleware
to say hey, for all of these,
I'm expecting various different things,
and give yourself some abstractions.
So to do that, we're going to go back
into our little server land where we were
before and like I said.
This is actually a great example because
we didn't do it to every single thing
in here.
We did in that smaller example, and
you already got bored watching me there.
So I'll spare you in here
because it's the same thing.
But here we can actually take a little
bit more of a one level higher approach.
Which is, again, you can have middleware
either for entire parts of the app, right,
and or you can just do it on a given
route depending on what you want to do.
Or mix and match places that you will see
Middleware normally used a lot is stuff
like, if it is you need to be logged in,
right?
You can have some middleware which checks
to see if they have an auth token.
And in some cases,
we'll fill in the current user onto
that local thing that we said before.
So you do request.user and
actually get a real user versus either
just the auth token or
something along those lines.
And then you can then reuse
that across many routes, right?
Or everything under a certain route,
so on and so forth, right?
You can do the same thing
with this as well, right?
You can do the same thing with like
middleware to like validate your types.
Right, which is again, make a bunch of
assumptions on every request that comes
through this so that by the time we
get to the part of the code we write,
all of that has been handled for us.
So, like the dumbest middleware, right,
is dumbest middleware.
>> Steve Kinney: We're lowercasing the w.
>> Steve Kinney: Is this.
The first part of the Middleware looks
exactly like the request, right?.
Okay, and
then it has this next function, right?
And that says okay,
now move on to the next part of the chain.
And the way that you would use it is for
instance, you would pop it in here.
And so when they get to the get test,
first, it would go through this dumbest
middleware, hit next, and then move on
to the next part of the chain, right?
And so
what we can do here is start to make some
assumptions about what we're working with.
And so one thing I'm gonna do real quick
is you get a lot better typing if you go
in the opposite direction here.
We just say that this
is a request handler,
cuz now you can see,
it does get the request type,
the response type, and the next type.
So, what we could do for instance,
let's say this is, validate CreateUser,
that seems good, right?
We could say,
>> Steve Kinney: We'll
have a try-catch block where we will try
to make sure that this request body,
we'll just Store in a variable here for
a second, is actually a new user.
Are too many different examples, validate,
create task is what we're doing here,
and that this is,
in fact, a task if so,
move on to the next one.
Otherwise, go ahead and throw an error.
So now we know by
the time that it will get
to the post request that it
ought to have been checked.
We'll see what happens in a second.
Cool and so where's that post request?
Here it is, and
we just pop that middleware in right here,
and request hasn't really changed, right?
Which is a bummer, but
we could do is like, add some again,
that type annotations.
Gotta get rid of the dumbest middleware.
It's gone.
There is no more dumbest middleware.
Is in here, effectively there
are defaults for all of this type stuff.
So yeah, it's cool.
This is the middleware that keeps
everything as chaotic as it was.
Right, but what we can do is say,
actually, no,
this is a request handler and
unfortunately, to get to the request body,
you've got to get through the path
params and the response body first.
I don't make the rules,
what we can do is we can,
it's going to yell at me because
it's not going to like that,
that was the path params.
And then I'm going to
go with an unknown for
the response body and I'm gonna say
that the request body is going to be
that create task type, right?
And other than some poor choices over
in there, what are we angry about?
Otherwise, yeah, it doesn't like this,
but and like that, but
we'll leave that alone for a second.
If we look, we just actually grabbed we
can just get rid of this completely.
>> Steve Kinney: Look at that task
is what it is supposed to be,
right because we have this middleware
called validate Create task, and
it passed through and
checked everything right.
And so now we can define just like these
middleware that we need right, and
then any route that uses the middleware,
everything will be correctly typed.
And we don't have to find
this all over the place.